SQL: Structured Query Language

1. Standard language based on English
2. Core of Relational Database which is used for accessing &
   managing database

MySQL

1. Database Management System(software)
2. It is an RDBMS (like SQL server, Informix)

Subsets of SQL:

1. DDL: Data Definition Language
It allows you to perform various operations on the database such as
CREATE, ALTER and DELETE objects.

2. DML: Data Manipulation Language
It allows you to access and manipulate data. It helps you to insert
, update, delete and retrieve data from the database.

3. DCL: Data Control Language
It allows you to control access to the database.
Eg- Grant, Revoke access permissions.

DATABASE is a structured collection of data.

A database management system is a software application that interacts
with the user, applications and the database itself to capture and
analyze data.

A DBMS allows a user to interact with the database. The data stored
in the database can be modified, retrieved and deleted and can be
of any type like strings, numbers, images etc.

There are two types of DBMS:

1. RDBMS: The data is stored in relations(tables) eg MySQL
2. Non-RDBMS: There is no concept of relations, tuples and attributes
              eg. Mongo

What do you mean by table and field in SQL?

A table refers to a collection of data in an organised manner in form
of rows and columns. A field refers to the number of columns in a
table.
Table: StudentInformation
Field: Stu Id, Stu Name, Stu Marks

What are joins in SQL?

A JOIN clause is used to combine rows from two or more tables, based
on a related column between them. It is used to merge two tables or
retrieve data from there.

There are 4 joins in SQL namely:
1. Inner Join
2. Right Join
3. Left Join
4. Full Join

What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2 datatype in SQL?

Both CHAR and VARCHAR2 are used for characters datatype but VARCHAR2
is used for character strings of variable length whereas CHAR is used
for strings of fixed length.
Eg. CHAR(10): can store exactly 10 characters
    VARCHAR2(10): can store any length <= 10 of characters

What is a Primary Key?

1. A primary key is column (or collection of columns) or a set of
columns that uniquely identifies each row in the table.
2. Uniquely identifies a single row in the table.
3. Null values are not allowed.
4. Can only be one in the entire table.

What are constraints?

Constraints are used to specify the limit on the datatype of the
table. It can be specified while creating or altering the table
statement. The sample of constraints are:

1. NOT NULL
2. CHECK
3. DEFAULT
4. UNIQUE
5. PRIMARY KEY
6. FOREIGN KEY

DELETE:
1. DELETE command is used to delete a row in a table.
2. You can rollback data after using delete statement.
3. It is a DML command.
4. It is slower than the truncate statement.

TRUNCATE:
1. TRUNCATE is used to delete all the rows from a table.
2. You cannot rollback data.
3. It is a DDL command.
4. It is faster than DELETE

